Add Tailwind v4 tip (#62)
astrolicious/astro-tips.dev: src/content/docs/tips/tailwind-v4.mdx

---
title: Tailwind v4
description: Quick set up guide for Tailwind v4
---
import { Tabs, TabItem, LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

How to use Tailwind's v4 Vite plugin instead of Astro's Tailwind integration.

Be sure to check out the [Tailwind v4 Blogpost](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v4-alpha#using-vite) for details on using v4.

## Install

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="npm">
        ```sh
        npm install --save-dev @tailwindcss/vite
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="pnpm">
        ```sh
        pnpm add -D @tailwindcss/vite
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="yarn">
        ```sh
        yarn add --dev @tailwindcss/vite
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configure

> ```ts title="astro.config.mjs"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts title="astro.config.mjs" {tailwindcss()} {7-10}
```

Reviewer 2: I was just gonna suggest the same 🚀

import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import tailwindcss from '@tailwindcss/vite';

// https://astro.build/config
export default defineConfig({
  vite: {
    plugins: [tailwindcss()],
    css: {
      transformer: 'lightningcss'
    }
  }
});
```

> ## CSS File

Reviewer 2: I think this section (`CSS File`) is visually no great yet. If the FileTree component support highlights, I would add it to show which files need to be added. Then  I would maybe use the Step component to walk the user through the setup/tasks step-by-step. And give a little sentence what the "imports" do in the respective files, maybe?

Author: ah good point this whole thing should be in steps

Instead of Astro's Tailwind integration importing the default tailwind `.css` file for you, you'll need to do this yourself.

```css title="src/styles/tailwind.css"
@import "tailwindcss";
```

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
---

> import "../styles/tailwind.css"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "../styles/tailwind.css";
```

---

> <!--  -->

Reviewer: This probably could be like

```
<div class="grid place-content-center p-8">
  <h1 class="text-5xl font-black">Hello, world!</h1>
</div>
```

---
title: Tailwind v4
description: Quick set up guide for Tailwind v4
astroRange: ^4.0.0
---
import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

> How to use Tailwind's v4 Vite plugin instead of Astro's Tailwind integration.

Reviewer 3: I think it's worth explaining quickly? Like it makes the integration basically useless now

> Be sure to check out the [Tailwind v4 Blogpost](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v4-alpha) for details on using v4.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be sure to check out the [Tailwind v4 Blogpost](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v4-alpha) for more details.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Can you add a caution or note that states that v4 is still in alpha? so people don't complain to us if something does not work

> ## Setup
> <Steps>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setup

<Steps>
```
